1. Explain the work you have done in the previous project , regarding AWS and Spark. questions around the project
2.  Design a system with RDS system as input get the data in cloud environment and perform DQ and transformation and get the data ready for analytics
   and provide the appropriate security.
3. what is VPC , subnet and security group in detail .
4. Is Lambda inside the VPC or not ? 
5. Can lambda would work outside the VPC ? detailed explanation on how lambda works
6. Is s3 bucket inside the VPC ?
7. If s3 is global then how data is protected in s3 bucket.? Questions around security of data and over the network data transfer etc
8. What is streaming ?
9. Explain Kinesis .. what is storage time of Kinesis Detailed explanation on kinesis .
10 . Explain Firehose ..difference between kinesis and firehose.
11. explain SQS Detailed
12 .Explain  SNS Detailed
13. Explain SES Detailed
14 .Comparison between Firehose and SQS ,why should i use firehose 
15.S3 life cycle 
16. What is a glue connection .
17. Inside the glue how do you do resource allocation
18. explain in detail about G1x , G2x ,G3x and the number of DPU's in each etc
19. In glue connection ,how it connects securely  and what are the components.
20.  Write a code for below scenario
      we have 2 dfs with huge dataset with only one column , i want to generate a third df 
       with 3 columns col1 from first df , column 2 from second df and third column addition of  first and second dfs columns.
    once you finish the writing the code questions around the code 
21. What will the time complexity of the above code and its algorithm.
22. how is time complexity calculated 
23. What are the solid principals of Data engineering 
24. what is ICEBERG  table ?what are the files in the ICEBERG  tables ? how does it works 
25. Write a code for below scenario 
    there is one array list with some elements from 0 to 10 find out the 3 elements whose addition is 6 
     write the detailed code.
26.Is python pass by value or pass by reference explain in details with example 
27.are Java and Scala pass by value or pass by reference explain in details, questions with example of coding and methods/list etc  
28. what are route tables and questions on networking 
29.What is delta lake ?
30 what is kafka
31 what is data mesh   
32 what is UDF , how to create a UDF , 
33 how is udf different to already existing spark functions and how does it work.   
34 what happens underneath when UDF runs and why it is slower .
35 pandas library      
36. some scenario-based questions
37. in SNS when you send a notification email can you send a table of data into it in the email or logs in the email.

